Add Security Strengths Appendix (#72)
lamps-wg/kyber-certificates: draft-ietf-lamps-kyber-certificates.md

<CODE ENDS>
~~~

# Security Strengths {#arnold}

Instead of defining the strength of a quantum algorithm in a traditional

> manner using the imprecise notion of bits of security, NIST has instead
> elected to define security levels by picking a reference scheme, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manner using the imprecise notion of bits of security, NIST has
defined security levels by picking a reference scheme, which
```

NIST expects to offer notable levels of resistance to both quantum and

> classical attack.  To wit, an algorithm that achieves NIST PQC security
> level 1 must require computational resources to break the relevant
> security property, which are greater than those required for a
> brute-force key search on AES-128.  Levels 3 and 5 use AES-192 and
> AES-256 as reference, respectively.  Levels 2 and 4 use collision search
> for SHA-256 and SHA-384 as reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
classical attack.  To wit, a KEM algorithm that achieves NIST PQC
security must require computational resources to break IND-CCA2
security comparable or greater than that required for key search
on AES-128, AES-192, and AES-256 for Levels 1, 3, and 5, respectively.
Levels 2 and 4 use collision search for SHA-256 and SHA-384 as reference.
```

Reviewer 2: sgtm. Nit: it's IND-CCA (without the 2) and I think it's better to put it in parentheses so:

>  (...) require computational resources to break (IND-CCA) security comparable (...)

<aside markdown="block">

>   TODO: what should go in this table?

Reviewer 2: ML-KEM-512, ML-KEM-768, ML-KEM-1024, no?

Author: This is obviously the right thing to include. I was just thinking that maybbe we should include references to 𝑛 𝑞 𝑘 𝜂1 𝜂2 𝑑𝑢 𝑑𝑣 ;)

Reviewer 2: Not sure how these other parameters help the reader.

</aside>

> | Level | ? | Encap. Key | Decap. Key | Ciphertext | SS |
> |-      |-  |-           |-           |-           |-   |
> | 1     |   | 800        | 1632       | 768        | 32 |
> | 3     |   | 1184       | 2400       | 1952       | 32 |
> | 5     |   | 1568       | 3168       | 2592       | 32 |
> {: #tab-strengths title="ML-KEM security strengths"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Level | Parameter Set | Encap. Key | Decap. Key | Ciphertext | SS |
|-      |-              |-           |-           |-           |-   |
| 1     | ML-KEM-512    | 800        | 1632       | 768        | 32 |
| 3     | ML-KEM-768    | 1184       | 2400       | 1952       | 32 |
| 5     | ML-KEM-1024   | 1568       | 3168       | 2592       | 32 |
{: #tab-strengths title="ML-KEM security strengths"}
```
